---
title: 2A
date: 2026-03-02
summary: The 2A experience — Unemployment at it's peak
---

# 2A

The 2A experience will mainly focus on my coop search... (Spoiler: IT IS SO BAD OMG I HATE WATERLOO)

## The COOP Search
To sum everything up, I applied to 426 jobs on WaterlooWorks alone this term. This story traces all the way back to my 1B co-op term. As I mentioned in my 1B blog, I spent that term at a random blockchain startup doing infrastructure/DevOps. I thought it would be a cool experience since it was crypto-related and DevOps work is generally transferable to other companies. Unfortunately, reality differed from my expectations. When I joined, the infrastructure had already been built, and there was barely any work left to do. And at the same time, I was never given access to the blockchain code so had no idea about how their crypto currency worked. Consequently, I learned very little throughout those four months. To compensate, I started "gaslighting" on my resume, claiming I had done much more than I actually did.

While this helped me land more interviews, around 30 throughout the term, I fumbled them all due to a lack of skill and in-depth knowledge. I spent the term mass-applying every day, hoping for interviews, only to fail miserably once I got them.

In the middle of the term, I had a chance to interview with Hitachi Rail. I passed two rounds of behavioural interviews and was asked to go to their office in person for a final technical round. I was excited but nervous. Since I didn’t know what to expect, I focused on LeetCode and system design, expecting to solve a problem in front of the interviewers. Instead, they had me write a Python exam on the spot with almost no communication.

I failed that interview as well due to my weak Python skills. That failure really stung, especially after a four-hour bus ride from Waterloo to Markham.

At one point, I was thinking of just taking an off term and spend some time polishing my skills and relax from the Waterloo rat race. However the idea of being jobless and having to explain to people that I failed at finding a COOP really frightened me, so I just kept applying.

In the end, I received an offer, but it wasn't one I liked. What made it worse was that I received a better offer after I had already started the job. Luckily, I really enjoyed my third co-op. The work itself wasn't that fun, but the people were great, and I even managed to fit in a trip to Iceland during the term.

So I think I really need to get better at interviewing and pickup the gaps in my skill set that I don't understand fully. 

## 2A Courses

### ECE 109

**Name of the course:** Materials Chemistry for Engineers
**Rating:** 3/5

Bro, I went into my final exam late for this course... LIKE I ACTUALLY CANNOT BE A REAL HUMAN.

Essentially, what happened was that I thought the exam was in the afternoon, but it was actually in the morning. So, during that day, I was taking my sweet time eating breakfast and dressing up. Once I was done with all of that, I decided to check Odyssey for the location of the exam. When I saw the time, my heart straight-up froze, and I rushed out of my room with my bag. I think that was the fastest I’ve ever run in my life, from 181 Lester to DC. When I finally got there, I was already 40 minutes late.

I got so lucky because it was not in PAC; if it were, I would not have been able to write the exam. However, since it was in DC, my prof had the final say and just allowed me to write it. The TA was also really nice; he gave me extra time and stayed behind for me to finish. I actually love that guy, bro SAVED MY ASS.

In terms of the course itself, it was not taught very well. Our professor had a really thick Russian accent, so I couldn't always understand her. Overall, it was mostly just 'plug and chug' formulas and figuring out which one to use.

### ECE 204

**Name of the course:** Numerical Methods
**Rating:** 4/5

This course taught us how to use MATLAB for approximations. It was overall a pretty cool course, and I was able to connect all the dots the night before the exam and somehow understood everything in that one night. Douglas Harder was really chill about this course and explicitly said in class that it should not require a lot of work. He also made it so that if your final grade is higher than any of your assignment or exam grades, the final exam grade will overwrite them.

### ECE 205

**Name of the course:** Advanced Calculus 1 for Electrical and Computer Engineers
**Rating:** 4/5

This was the only calculus course that comp eng students have to take that goes beyond the scope of AP Calc BC. It covers the essence of multivariable calculus and was a really cool and useful course for future ECE courses.

### ECE 222

**Name of the course:** Digital Computers
**Rating:** 4/5

This was a really useful course that teaches RISC-V and computer architecture. Andrew Morton was a bit monotone, but his notes were really good. Everything that was on his exams was covered in his notes.

### ECE 240

**Name of the course:** Electronic Circuits 1
**Rating:** 3/5

I think this course is more interesting than ECE 140, and the MOSFET stuff was inspiring to understand. My homie Akash gave me a crash course during finals season, and I was able to pass the course...

### ECE 250

**Name of the course:** Algorithms and Data Structures
**Rating:** 4/5

Finally taking a DSA course so that I can solve LeetCode questions, XD. But to be honest, the course does not teach you how to do LeetCode; it's more about the ideas behind all the data structures and algorithms so that you have an intuition for the concepts. Unfortunately, passing this course does not mean you automatically become a LeetCode god.

## Exchange Application

So, back then, I wanted to go on exchange, and the requirement for that is an 80% average. I was quite motivated to study because of that. In the end, I decided not to go since my grades weren't high enough for the specific schools I wanted, so I figured I was better off just staying at Waterloo.

## Random Tips

BRO LIKE WHY IS ONTARIO SO WINDING I'M LEGIT GOING TO BE BLOWN AWAY...