---
title: 2B
date: 2026-03-02
summary: The 2B experience — Mental Problems??
---

# 2B

The 2B experience will mainly focus on some of my inner struggles and my options on the waterloo coop system.

## The COOP System

If you are reading this blog, you probably already know how Waterloo's co-op system works. But here I would like to talk specifically about the Computer Engineering Stream 4 system. To sum things up, our degree essentially looks like the following: 1A -> CO-OP -> 1B -> CO-OP -> 2A -> CO-OP -> 2B -> CO-OP -> 3A -> 3B -> CO-OP -> 4A -> CO-OP -> 4B.

Overall, Waterloo's culture is heavily focused on co-op, and people's identities and self-worth are built mainly around the co-ops they've had. I found myself also deeply believing that co-op is the most important thing at this current stage of my life, and that I am a failure if I am not able to find a job in California.

I believe that this mindset has really influenced how I use my time and how I learn. Ever since I entered university, I haven't learned anything simply because I was interested in it. It felt like everything I did had to have a purpose, and everything I learned should be focused on making me more employable in the future. Not only that, but I am also less interested in the material itself, and more focused on what I can put on my resume after learning it.

This really caused a big issue for me, especially during my 2B term. I barely had any motivation to go to lectures since I found them not directly applicable to my co-op search. How is Signals and Systems going to help me land a software engineering position at a big tech company? Clearly, it is not helping at all. So then I would constantly question why I am here and why I am doing this degree if I won't use 90% of what is being taught to me.

And because I cared so much about co-op, I don't think I enjoyed my time at the university. I anticipated university to be fun—to take cool lectures and to meet interesting people. It turns out that all I've had from the past two years was just co-op, co-op, and co-op.

Besides the co-op system, with the changes that AI is bringing to the tech industry, a lot of the skills that I learned in the past seem to be worthless now. Cursor can easily build a web application that works better than what I can build in a fraction of the time it would have taken me. So, I am constantly questioning which field I should go into, whether it be full-stack, backend, AI, embedded, robotics, or whatever else.

And when I got to pick between the offers that I had—one was embedded, one was DevOps, and one was full-stack—I didn't know which one to pick and kept regretting my decision after I accepted the embedded offer.

So, I just spent my whole 2B term questioning myself, regretting my decisions, and feeling scared that I would become jobless. Even to this day, I still don't have an answer to these questions, but I will try to stop these thoughts from consuming me and my time.

## 2B Courses (Removed Ratings due to the fact that I barely studied the material)

### ECE 203

**Name of the course:** Probability Theory and Statistics 1

Did not understand anything...

### ECE 207

**Name of the course:** Signals and Systems

Did not understand anything...

### ECE 208

**Name of the course:** Discrete Mathematics and Logic 2

Did not understand anything...

### ECE 224

**Name of the course:** Embedded Microprocessor Systems

A overview of embedded systems, almost like biology of computer engineering.

### ECE 252

**Name of the course:** Systems Programming and Concurrency

Really useful course that talks about mutexes, semaphores, and the issues within concurrency such as deadlocks.

### ECE 298

**Name of the course:** Instrumentation and Prototyping Laboratory

This course is only a half credit course but took the most time. However, it is a practical course that teaches you STM32 programming, PCB design, as well as soldering. 

### MUSIC 246

**Name of the course:** Soundtracks in film
**Rating:** 5/5

I overloaded this course, but Simon Wood is actually the most GOATed prof. He is passionate about what he teaches and knows the course material very well.

## Exchange Application

So, back then, I wanted to go on exchange, and the requirement for that is an 80% average. I was quite motivated to study because of that. In the end, I decided not to go since my grades weren't high enough for the specific schools I wanted, so I figured I was better off just staying at Waterloo.

## Random Tips

BRO LIKE WHY IS ONTARIO SO WINDY? I'M LEGIT GOING TO BE BLOWN AWAY...